Update proc_creating_custom_test.adoc (#179)
redhat-appstudio/docs.appstudio.io: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-guides/testing_applications/proc_creating_custom_test.adoc

  name: example-pipeline
spec:
  params:
    - name: username
      default: world 
  tasks: 
    - name: task-1
      taskRef:
        resolver: git
        params:
          - name: url
            value: https://github.com/**/**-examples
          - name: revision
            value: main
          - name: pathInRepo
            value: tasks/task-1.yaml
      params:
        - name: username

>           value: $(params.username)

Reviewer: Why this change? 
If you want to fix unrelated parts to injected variables, open a new PR.

I discontinue review, I'm not going to review PR with changing scope

Author: It's mentioned in the A/C item -  Examples and usage for docs team (file a story), i.e. how user can create working integration test to test deployed services are provided. So you meant to file a new JIRA ticket for it ?

Reviewer: But using those options we are documenting, SNAPSHOT param

if all examples are completelly wrong, then we should have a new ticket

Reviewer: what I want to achieve here is, that it's clear to users how to use those parameters for creating their own integration test tasks:
- user should be able to find in doc what is injected into test pipeline by appstudio/integration-service
- user should be able to clearly understand what the values are (mainly in structured data like SNAPSHOT)
- user should be able to understand how to easily use params, and how to integrate them into testing pipeline (one example is better than 1000 words)

So maybe we can have a subsection here, with just single example, how to construct task which can use SNAPSHOT (for example, task may just print image url)

Author: An example needs its context. With the original pipeline and task in the page, it's hard to add a "simple example" for the SNAPSHOT from my understand.

Reviewer: ok then

----

. Create the "tasks" path in the Github repository, and create a new '.yaml' file for the task. 

+
Example task declaration:

+
[source]
----
kind: Task
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: task-1 
spec:
  description: >-
    This is task-1
  params:
    - name: username
      description: The name of the user
  steps:
    - image: alpine:3.15
      script: |
        echo "hello $(params.username)"

----

. Save the `.yaml` file. 
.. If you haven’t already, commit the files to the GitHub repository that {ProductName} can access.

. Add your new custom test as an integration test in {ProductName}.
.. For additional instructions on adding an integration test, see this document: xref:how-to-guides/testing_applications/proc_adding_an_integration_test.adoc[Adding an integration test].

[NOTE]
====

> In the integration test created above, integration-service adds some Params/Labels automatically to the integration PipelineRun. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the integration test created above, integration-service adds following Parameters/Labels automatically to the integration PipelineRun. 
```

Author: Updated. Thanks

. Add your new custom test as an integration test in {ProductName}.
.. For additional instructions on adding an integration test, see this document: xref:how-to-guides/testing_applications/proc_adding_an_integration_test.adoc[Adding an integration test].

----
In the integration test created above, integration-service adds some Params/Labels automatically to the integration PipelineRun

1. A param containing the Snapshot as a json string
2. A param containing the DeploymentTarget connection details and Environment name
3. A Label for type of PipelineRun, i.e. "test"
4. A Label for optional flag of IntegrationTestScenario 

> 5. Labels for the name of application, component and IntegrationTestScenario

Reviewer: Shall we write explicitly names of params and labels?

Also examples would be helpful

Author: What examples? Do you mean the current example for the IntegrationPipelineRun is too simple and replace it with a new one?

Reviewer: yes, like complete value what user can see in SNAPSHOT param

Author: @MartinBasti , do you mean add an example value for SNAPSHOT like this one ? {"application":"application-sample","components":[{"name":"component-sample","containerImage":"quay.io/redhat-appstudio/sample-image@sha256:34fb1c72bc976937d0a59849160746cec12a8c925f31e74dc9f3b922f74da0e9","source":{"git":{"url":"git@github.com:redhat-appstudio/integration-service.git\n","revision":"sha256:3703843e80f39188c060a6ed0f524519a682be1e7141fee29b878b1973e9783c"}}}],"artifacts":{}}

Author: It's so long that I don't want to add it.

Reviewer: yes

that's why I wanted to make it a separate textual section, which gives us more space

if SNAPSHOT JSON cannot be added, we should at least link it to SNAPSHOT definition, so use can easily find which fields are available

Author: Added the link to Snapshot definition as you suggested. Thanks

. Add your new custom test as an integration test in {ProductName}.
.. For additional instructions on adding an integration test, see this document: xref:how-to-guides/testing_applications/proc_adding_an_integration_test.adoc[Adding an integration test].

> ----

Reviewer: Why is added as a code block and not standard text?

Author: This part is not a step of the procedure. I think it should be a additional Note or Tips. I updated to use Note in the PR.

> In the integration test created above, integration-service adds some Params/Labels automatically to the integration PipelineRun
> 
> 1. The param of "SNAPSHOT" containing the Snapshot as a json string
> 2. The param of "NAMESPACE" containing the namespace where the snapshot will be deployed 
> 3. The Label of "appstudio.openshift.io/snapshot" containing the name of snapshot
> 4. The Label of "test.appstudio.openshift.io/optional" for optional flag of IntegrationTestScenario
> 5. The Label of "test.appstudio.openshift.io/scenario" containing the name of IntegrationTestScenario
> 6. The Label of "appstudio.openshift.io/application" containing the name of application
> 7. The Label of "appstudio.openshift.io/component" containing the name of component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Data injected into integration PipelineRun

In the integration test created above, integration-service adds following items automatically to the integration PipelineRun.

Parameters:

. `SNAPSHOT` containing the Snapshot as a json string
. `NAMESPACE` containing the namespace where the snapshot will be deployed 

Labels:
. `appstudio.openshift.io/application` containing the name of application
. `appstudio.openshift.io/component` containing the name of component
. `appstudio.openshift.io/snapshot` containing the name of snapshot
. `test.appstudio.openshift.io/optional` for optional flag of IntegrationTestScenario
. `test.appstudio.openshift.io/scenario` containing the name of IntegrationTestScenario
```

Author: The format is not working well with the suggested change.

. Add your new custom test as an integration test in {ProductName}.
.. For additional instructions on adding an integration test, see this document: xref:how-to-guides/testing_applications/proc_adding_an_integration_test.adoc[Adding an integration test].

.Data injected into integration PipelineRun

In the integration test created above, integration-service adds the following Parameters/Labels automatically to the integration PipelineRun.

Parameters:

 . `SNAPSHOT` containing the https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/application-api/blob/main/api/v1alpha1/snapshot_types.go[Snapshot] as a json string

>  . `NAMESPACE` containing the namespace where the snapshot will be deployed

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify here that this parameter only gets added if the IntegrationTestScenario uses ephemeral environments to deploy the Snapshot that's being tested?

Author: Thanks. Added a NOTE for it.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, looks good

. Add your new custom test as an integration test in {ProductName}.
.. For additional instructions on adding an integration test, see this document: xref:how-to-guides/testing_applications/proc_adding_an_integration_test.adoc[Adding an integration test].

.Data injected into integration PipelineRun

In the integration test created above, integration-service adds the following Parameters/Labels automatically to the integration PipelineRun.

Parameters:

>  . `SNAPSHOT` containing the https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/application-api/blob/main/api/v1alpha1/snapshot_types.go[Snapshot] as a json string

Reviewer 2: Just an idea: maybe we can have the example contents of the Snapshot stored in our [integration-examples](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/integration-examples) repository and link to it here to provide the users with a better idea of how it will look.

Author: Do you mean we store the example content of the Snapshot [here](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/integration-examples/blob/main/pipelines/integration_test_app.yaml#L13C3-L13C3)? I just wonder if we need to change the pipeline/task in the page also?

Reviewer 2: We could have a new directory called `examples` with a more well defined example of the Snapshot like the one you mentioned earlier:
```
{"application":"application-sample","components":[{"name":"component-sample","containerImage":"quay.io/redhat-appstudio/sample-image@sha256:34fb1c72bc976937d0a59849160746cec12a8c925f31e74dc9f3b922f74da0e9","source":{"git":{"url":"[git@github.com](mailto:git@github.com):redhat-appstudio/integration-service.git\n","revision":"sha256:3703843e80f39188c060a6ed0f524519a682be1e7141fee29b878b1973e9783c"}}
```

Author: @dirgim, so, I just need to create a new file contains the example content of Snapshot , right?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think that would do the job.

 . `NAMESPACE` containing the namespace where the snapshot will be deployed

[NOTE]
====
The NAMESPACE parameter only gets added if the IntegrationTestScenario uses ephemeral environments to deploy the Snapshot that's being tested
====

Labels:

 . `appstudio.openshift.io/application` containing the name of application
 . `appstudio.openshift.io/component` containing the name of component

>  .  `appstudio.openshift.io/snapshot` containing the name of snapshot
>  .  `test.appstudio.openshift.io/optional` for optional flag of IntegrationTestScenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 . `appstudio.openshift.io/snapshot` containing the name of snapshot
 . `test.appstudio.openshift.io/optional` for optional flag of IntegrationTestScenario
```

Author: Resolved
